---
layout: post
title: "Python"
excerpt: "Useful concepts in python to write clean and efficient code."
tags: python 
---
{: class="table-of-content"}
* TOC
{:toc}

# Interpreter and Arguments

To run a python script, we run the command ```python script_name.py arg1 arg2```

Here ```scriptname.py```, ```arg1``` and ```arg2``` are arguments passed to the python interpreter. These arguments can be accessed using the ```sys``` module.

```python
import sys
print(sys.argv[:])
```
The arguments are stored as ```strings``` in the list ```argv```.

# Assignment, shallowcopy and deepcopy

## Assignment:
A variable points to a memory location that contains a data. The memory location is given by the ```id()``` function. Let ```a=[[1,2],[3,4],[5,6]]```. Now if we do ```b=a```, the value of ```a``` is not copied to ```b``` but the memory address that ```a``` is pointing to is copied to ```b```. If we change ```b```, the change is reflected in ```a``` as well.
```python
>>> a = [[1,2],[3,4],[5,6]]
>>> b = a
>>> id(a)==id(b)
True
>>> id(a[0])==id(b[0])
True
```
## Shallowcopy:
Let ```a=[[1,2],[3,4],[5,6]]```. Here ```a``` refers to the memory location of a list that contains the memory locations of three more lists. When we do ```b = copy.copy(a)``` we are doing shallowcopy. Here what we are doing is copying the contents of the memory location ```a``` is pointing to. Since ```a``` is a list of lists, we are copying the contents of the memory location of the outer list to ```b```. This means ```b``` is a new list that points to a new memory location that contains the memory locations of the sub-lists. If we make any change to the outer list in ```b``` it won't affect ```a``` but if we make any change to the inner list it will be reflected in ```a``` as well.
```python
>>> import copy
>>> a = [[1,2],[3,4],[5,6]]
>>> b = copy.copy(a) # shallow copies a to b. Similar to b = a[:]
>>> id(a)==id(b)
False
>>> id(a[0])==id(b[0])
True
```
## Deepcopy:
Let ```a=[[1,2],[3,4],[5,6]]```. Here ```a``` refers to the memory location of a list that contains the memory locations of three more lists. When we do ```b = copy.deepcopy(a)``` we are doing deepcopy. Here what we are doing is recursively copying the contents of ```a```. If ```a``` contains other lists, even they are copied then. ```copy.deepcopy()``` makes a true copy of a variable. 
```python
>>> import copy
>>> a = [[1,2],[3,4],[5,6]]
>>> b = copy.deepcopy(a)
>>> id(a)==id(b)
False
>>> id(a[0])==id(b[0])
False
```
