---
layout: post
title: "The philosophy of Artificial Intelligence"
excerpt: ""

---
Life is all about experimenting, observing and using the observations to do better experiments.
Do you remember the first time you had an intense crush on someone? Do you remember how it felt? Day and night, you used to think about that person continuously wondering whether he/she likes you as well or not. When you finally picked up the courage to go and talk to him/her, you discover that your crush is in love with someone else and hence your heart gets broken. But not everything bad happened. From the experience you had, your mind drew out a conclusion that next time when you have a crush, make sure to find out whether that person is in love with someone else or not and that is what you did for all the crushes that came next in your life.


Right now, you must be wondering how your mind was smart enough to draw such a conclusion from such an experience? It was questions like these that philosophers and scholars have been asking for centuries and these questions although philosophical in nature laid the very foundations of Artificial Intelligence.

1. Can formal rules be used to draw valid conclusions?

2. How does the mind arise from a physical brain?

3. Where does knowledge come from?

4. How does knowledge lead to action?

These are the four philosophical questions that we will be discussing and by the end of this article, you will understand how an intelligent system is supposed to work.

## Can formal rules be used to draw valid conclusions?

Food is one of the very basic needs of a human being and like me, some of us need food a bit too much. Every time we feel hungry we start looking for food. It’s because there is a rule set in our minds that we need to eat when we feel hungry. So, every time the problem arises that we feel hungry, we draw the conclusion that we need to eat food and so we go on searching for it.

The above example may have been slightly confusing but in simpler terms, we take all our logical decisions based on some sort of rules.  Thus, if we are able to make a machine follow the same rules that a human follow, it will be able to perform the same operations as us. It was based on this principle that the first calculator was built thus proving that formal rules can be used to draw valid conclusions.

## How does the mind arise from a physical brain?

The mind is the source of all our thoughts and emotions. Feelings of happiness and sadness all come from our mind. But where does the mind reside? According to a philosophy called materialism, the brain’s operations according to the laws of physics constitutes the mind. But doesn’t that mean we don’t have any free will? According to this philosophy, free will is just the perception of choices that comes to us. In other words, we have no more free will than a rock “deciding” to fall towards the center of the earth.

Because our mind is nothing but the working of our brain, doctors give depression pills to patients who are suffering from depression. The pills alter their brain chemistry thus making their mind come and the patients don’t feel depressed anymore.

## Where does knowledge come from?

Think about a newborn child. When the child is born, he/she cannot do anything. With time as the child grows up, he/she learns to walk, talk, make decisions and a lot of other stuff. It’s because when the child is born, he/she doesn’t possess any kind of knowledge. As time passes by and he/she experiences the world through his/her senses and gathers information. As these information starts to repeat themselves, our mind starts creating rules from these repetitions. These rules become our beliefs. These beliefs when verified by experiments and logical analysis becomes our knowledge. For example: When a kid touches a hot stove he/she experiences pain. Because of this painful experience, the kid starts believing that touching hot objects will be painful. However later through experimentation and logical analysis when the boy/girl learned why touching hot objects is painful, it becomes knowledge.

Thus, we can say that a computer can gain data through its sensors and based on the repetitions of the data rules are formed. If these rules are verified through experimentation the computer will gain the knowledge to do the task.

## How does knowledge lead to action?

To explain this let’s take a small example. What do we do when we feel cold? We feel the need to cover ourselves up with a jacket. So, we go buy a jacket and wear it thus taking an action.How does this action take place?

Actions are basically executing the conclusions that we draw from a particular situation or environment. In simpler terms, when we have a goal in mind, from our knowledge base we use reasoning to draw a conclusion about accomplishing that goal. These conclusions when executed by us to accomplish that goal becomes action.

In the above example, our goal is to find a jacket to cover ourselves up so that we don’t feel cold anymore. From our knowledge base, we figure out that we need to either find or buy what we need. So, we draw the conclusion that we need to either find a jacket from our wardrobe or buy one from the mall. When we go to the mall and buy the jacket, it becomes an action. Thus, knowledge leads to action.

In summary, we know that we can use logical rules to draw a conclusion, the mind is just how our brain works, knowledge comes from logically validating the rules that are formed from the data collected through the sensors and actions are nothing but the execution of the conclusions. Using these theories, it is possible to build a machine that can replicate human intelligence, however scientifically how much that is possible will be discussed in the next post.
